Astro-Blaster

The space freighter lanes around your space station are dangerously
cluttered with a group of large asteroids.  You have been sent out in
your trusty mining ship to blast the asteroids out of the way.

However, there is a complication.  An alien culture has decided that
these asteroids are worthy of preservation and has sent a patrol ship
to protect them.  This alien is a pacifist as well as a
conservationist so he will not fire at your shipas you try to remove
the rocks.  However, he will not hesitate to ram you to protect the
asteroids. The alien has a radar tracking device which will home in on
your ship.  You are a little lucky as this device doesn't work very
well when you are over on the right hand side of the screen.

As well as avoiding the alien's attempts to ram you, you must also
avoid crashing into the asteroids or the border of the screen.  Any of
these mishaps will cause your ship to explode.  You will find that
your missiles have no effect on the alien ship or on any asteroid the
alien ship lands on.

The "I" key moves your ship up the screen and the "M" key moves it
down screen.  The "J" key moves the ship left and the "L" key moves it
to the right.  The "U" key can be used as a temporary pause button to
help you regain your breath!  This key arrangement may seem a little
difficult at first but, you'll discover, it becomes a very good way to
control four-directional movement.  The "F" key fires your missiles.

The movement of your ship is continuous.  When you press a key, your
ship keeps moving in that direction until you press another key.  This
makes the game very difficult and it requires a lot of playing to
master.

A final word of warning.  Your ship is a mining ship, not a space
fighter.  It wasn't designed to carry heavy weapons, so when you fire
your missiles watch out for the recoil!

After the title has been displayed, the screen will turn black with a
brown border.  The four asteroids will be POKEd onto the screen
followed by the alien ship near the top left hand corner of the screen
and your ship in the middle of the screen but nearer to the bottom.
The time taken will be displayed in the top left hand corner of the
screen.

Astro-Blaster was written by Daniel Quinn.
