# basic-games

This is the home repository of the Vintage BASIC Games project, which
aims to be a comprehensive collection of games written in BASIC for
70s and 80s-era microcomputers.

If you're simply interested in playing and exploring the game, there's
no need to mess around with this repository.  The goal of the project
is to make all games available on the [Internet
Archive](https://archive.org/details/basic-games), configured to run
in an emulator directly in the browser.

## Contributions

Your assistance in building up the collection is gratefully
appreciated.  There aren't detailed instructions available yet on the
layout and tooling of this repository for direct submissions of new
games, but typos and mistakes always creep in, and corrections are
always welcome.

That said, please be mindful that this is a **preservation** project,
and the aim is always to have a version of each game with the original
terrible user interface, misspellings, etc., intact as originally
published, with only enough modifications as needed to make the game
function on a technical level.

The most valuable contribution you can make at the moment is that of
**source material**.  We have access to the more famous sources of the
day (the "BASIC Games" books from *Creative Computing*, Tim Hartnell's
"Giant Books", etc.), but more obscure sources and your own creations
from back in the day are eagerly sought after.  Check
[here](status.md) for the current status of materials being processed.

The origins of many of these games are somewhat murky and their
availability for redistribution equally so.  If you are the original
author of any material in the repository and object to its presence,
please let us know.  Please reconsider, though, as this is a purely
non-commercial effort, and its intent is to preserve and honor your
work.

The primary developer can be contacted at meiss.mark@gmail.com.
