Cosmic Journey

Are you ready to brave the dangers of a Cosmic Journey?  You must fly
your space craft across the screen to the exit point on the other
side.  The game has a wide range of speed options and many different
levels.  Each time you successfully complete one screen you move onto
the next level.  Each new level will be harder than the last.

Your final score in the game will relate to the speed you chose and
the number of levels you completed.  You get bonus points for flying
at faster speeds.  The first screen you traverse is empty but after
that you will have to negotiate waves of asteroids and, in higher
levels, a space barrier will block your path.

Move your space ship to the left and the right with the "J" key and
the "K" key respectively.  The "D" key will slow your ship and the "S"
key will speed up your flight.

At the beginning of the game you will be asked which speed you wish to
try.  There is no limit to the number you may enter but level three is
easy, level five will provide a challenge and level ten is virtually
impossible.

When the journey begins, the screen will clear to black and your space
ship will appear at the bottom.  An exit point will be visible at the
top of the screen.  There will be a great blast of sound as your ship
takes off.  Then you must steer the ship across the screen and through
the exit point.  The screen will clear and a new level will be printed
up.

The second level has a scattering of obstacles and these grow more
numerous as the game progresses.  If your flying skills aren't up to
the level required, your ship will disappear in a very impressive
explosion.

Cosmic Journey was written by Daniel Quinn. 
