Roman Empire

This program has the potential to make you the most powerful person in
the known world, Emperor of the Roman Empire!  To be successful you
must juggle all your available resources to produce a strong and
prosperous Empire.  You must balance your trade against the strength
of your military, making sure all the time that you are providing
enough food for your population.

Each game turn is the equivalent of a year.  At the beginning of each
year you will be given a Senate report which shows the state of the
Empire for the coming year.  This report is very important and should
be studied carefully.  It shows the size of your population, the size
of the army and navy, the size of the merchant marine and the amount
of labour involved in shipbuilding.  It also shows the number of
merchant guilds producing goods for export, the amount of uncommited
labour you have to allocate for the year, the size of your gold
reserves, how much food you have stockpiled and how much food you will
need to feed the people.

The first job you have to do at the start of each turn is to allocate
your uncommitted labour for the coming year.  This is very important,
especially in the early years when the Empire is small and struggling.
It is important to get the relationships between the different areas
of employment correct.  The size of the army decides whether or not
you will be able to win wars or put down rebellions in the provinces.
The value of your export trade depends on the outcome of these
battles.

You must make certain that you have crews to man the number of ships
that you are going to build.  Each one of your ship building cohorts
will build one ship per year.  There is no point in having 40 cohorts
if you only have 25 crews.  Likewise, it is very wasteful to have
crews sitting around waiting to have ships built for them.  Therefore,
you must be sure to allocate enough labour to the navy and merchant
navy to crew the ships you are building.

Please note.  You can subtract labour from any area just by entering a
negative number and you can shuffle labour back and forth to your
heart's content until you have no unallocated labour.  Once this
figure reaches zero the program moves onto the next phase.  This may
be necessary on the first turn to correct any imbalances you may start
with.

Each one of your guilds of craftsmen produce enough export goods to
fill one ship.  These trade goods earn your income.  The local trading
ships provide food for your people.

After all your labour has been allocated, you will be given the
opportunity to hire Auxilia units to augment your army.  Auxilia
points cost more than regular legions and they may not go quietly when
they are fired.

The next routine is the shipbuilding segment.  As we have already
said, make sure you have crews for all your ships.  You can divide
your ships between the navy and the merchant navy as you see fit.  You
will then be told how many ships you have available for overseas trade
and you will be asked how many ships you wish to send overseas and how
many war galleys are to escort them.  Your merchant ships are always
risking attacks by pirates so it is a good idea to send along war
galleys as escorts.  Any that you don't send overseas are assumed to
be patrolling home waters protecting your local trading ships.

After you have made all these decisions, you will be advised if there
are any wars or rebellions underway around the Empire.  At the
conclusion of this section, you will be told how well your forces
fared and your losses in the conflict.  Be warned, if you lose a
battle your losses can be heavy!  The computer will give you a
complete list of your losses and any alteration to your trading value
after each fight.

The next routine tells you about the losses that piracy has inflicted
on your merchantmen.  These losses can be reduced by protecting your
merchant navy with a strong force of war galleys.

Following this you will receive a full report of your financial
transactions for the year including your trading figures and your
expenditure on the armed forces.  The bottom line will be the amount
of gold in the treasury.

Your people now need to be fed.  The next routine in the program will
tell you how much food your local trading ships brought back and if
this was enough.  If it wasn't youâ€™ll be forced to import more grain
at greatly inflated prices.

The final routines for each turn cover your popularity and give you a
points score based on the state of the Empire and your efforts to
expand it.  This score may fluctuate widely during the game, even
going into negative numbers if you are doing a very poor job as
Emperor.
