Survival

This program written by Doug Rolfe is an adventure program with a
difference.

You are a passenger on an interstellar flight.  The ship has been
attacked and ransacked by space pirates.  The crew has been killed and
the few passengers the ship was carrying have been kidnapped.  You are
the only person left on board the ship.  To survive you must get to
the control room, get the ship underway and then get off the ship to
safety.  Please be very careful, a derelict spaceship holds many
dangers for the unwary.

Commands should be entered as two words. Firstly a verb, such as GET
or GO, this should be followed by a noun or a direction such as BOOTS
or NOSEWARD.  You have four choices of directions.  Noseward and
Tailward, which are self explanatory, Spinward and Antispinward.
These last two refer to the direction in which the ship is rotating to
produce an artifical gravity.

The screen will display all the information that you need to know as
the game proceeds.  You will be told what you can see in each of the
four directions, and under this you will be informed if there are any
objects near you.  You will then be asked for your command.

We don't want to make the game too easy for you so we won't give you
much more information but there are two more things that you need to
know.

Please note that locked doors and locked lockers have to be UNLOCKED.
Closed doors need to be OPENED.  The OPEN and UNLOCK routines are
separate and if you try to OPEN a locked door you may be told there
isn't a door there.  The program will look for a closed door and not a
locked door, if it doesn't find one it will tell you that you have
made a mistake.  Of course you can only unlock a locked door or locker
if you have the right key!

Finally, be very careful what you pick up, once you have something it
is yours forever.  You can't put it down again!  Good luck.
